proposal.md, before:

# Motivation and purpose

# Description of the data

This is a data set from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/sidtwr/videogames-sales-dataset?select=PS4_GamesSales.csv) about sales of PS4 video games. There are 1031 observations regarding name of video games, year of release, genre, publisher, and 5 binary variables (North America, Europe, Japan, Rest of World, and Global) to indicate the sales in these 5 regions.  

# Research questions and usage scenarios 

## Example Usage 
Shintaro is a senior sales analyst at the regional sales department of Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE) headquartered in San Mateo, California. SIE is a wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sony Group Corporation that has other offices in London and Tokyo. The department’s function is to analyze sales of the PlayStation family of products and services and make new sales strategies based on the historical sales data. Shintaro’s group focuses on PlayStation 4 (“PS4”). On a daily basis, he is responsible for `analyzing` available historical data stored in the internal database on the regional and global sales of PS4 games. He needs to `calculate` the market share of PS4 for the past few years. He would like to `identify` what genres of PS4 video games, such as shooter or sports, generated the most sales in North America. He also needs to `spot` the game publishers, such as Electronic Arts and Namco Bandai Games, that contributed to the most sales and had the greatest number of games available in the North American market. Moreover, he needs to `examine` the competitive landscape of video game market by `analyzing` sales trends of some competitors, such as Xbox One and Wii. 

When Shintaro logs into the “Video Game Sales Analytics App”, he will see an overview line plot of historical sales in North American by clicking “North America” button or view sales in other regions by clicking “global” button. He can slide to see different years’ sales data and use the filter on the side bar to see sales of different competitors in each region and year He can also identify the top 5 to top 10 publishers that contributed the most sales for PS4 and other competitors by looking at the bar chart and use the drop-down menu to choose how many top publishers he would like to see. Similarly, for the top game genres that generated the most sales, he can also look at another bar chart and use the drop-down menu to choose how many top genres he would like to see. He can also see the market shares of PS4 and other competitors for the past few years by choosing different years on the side bar.     

## Research questions 
The app is designed to allow sales analyst of video game companies to identify sales trends and understrand competitive landscape. It answers questions including: what was the market share of my company in a given year? What were the historical sales trends for my company and some competitors in the past few years and how did they compare with each other? What were the top publishers that contributed the most sales to my company and to the market? What were the most popular genres of games?

Commit message:

edited only Motivation and purpose

proposal.md, after:

# Motivation and purpose

Our role: Data science insight firm

Target audience: Sales analyst

Video games started off as a method of entertainment for children, but with the course of time, and with the development of technologies such as gaming consoles, video graphics and computational processes, it has evolved attract users from every age groups, and every walks of life. At the beginning only a handful of companies created video games and it was categorized as niche, or supplementary. But fast forward today, the electronic gaming industry generated over $165 billion in 2020 alone. To stay ahead in this multi-billion dollar industry, thinking of only plots, story lines and charismatic characters with flashy costumes is not enough. Analysts, researchers and critics play a great role advocating changes which aids companies to come up with game-winning plans and ideas.
We are here with our app to make the jobs of sales analysts easy, where they do not need to go through messy datasets and spending hours exploring trends and insights. Our app will show the distribution of driving factors contributing to video games sales and allow analuysts to explore different aspects by filtering and re-ordering over several variables to compare factors that contribute to sales.

# Description of the data

This is a data set from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/sidtwr/videogames-sales-dataset?select=PS4_GamesSales.csv) about sales of PS4 video games. There are 1031 observations regarding name of video games, year of release, genre, publisher, and 5 binary variables (North America, Europe, Japan, Rest of World, and Global) to indicate the sales in these 5 regions.  

# Research questions and usage scenarios 

## Example Usage 
Shintaro is a senior sales analyst at the regional sales department of Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE) headquartered in San Mateo, California. SIE is a wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sony Group Corporation that has other offices in London and Tokyo. The department’s function is to analyze sales of the PlayStation family of products and services and make new sales strategies based on the historical sales data. Shintaro’s group focuses on PlayStation 4 (“PS4”). On a daily basis, he is responsible for `analyzing` available historical data stored in the internal database on the regional and global sales of PS4 games. He needs to `calculate` the market share of PS4 for the past few years. He would like to `identify` what genres of PS4 video games, such as shooter or sports, generated the most sales in North America. He also needs to `spot` the game publishers, such as Electronic Arts and Namco Bandai Games, that contributed to the most sales and had the greatest number of games available in the North American market. Moreover, he needs to `examine` the competitive landscape of video game market by `analyzing` sales trends of some competitors, such as Xbox One and Wii. 

When Shintaro logs into the “Video Game Sales Analytics App”, he will see an overview line plot of historical sales in North American by clicking “North America” button or view sales in other regions by clicking “global” button. He can slide to see different years’ sales data and use the filter on the side bar to see sales of different competitors in each region and year He can also identify the top 5 to top 10 publishers that contributed the most sales for PS4 and other competitors by looking at the bar chart and use the drop-down menu to choose how many top publishers he would like to see. Similarly, for the top game genres that generated the most sales, he can also look at another bar chart and use the drop-down menu to choose how many top genres he would like to see. He can also see the market shares of PS4 and other competitors for the past few years by choosing different years on the side bar.     

## Research questions 
The app is designed to allow sales analyst of video game companies to identify sales trends and understrand competitive landscape. It answers questions including: what was the market share of my company in a given year? What were the historical sales trends for my company and some competitors in the past few years and how did they compare with each other? What were the top publishers that contributed the most sales to my company and to the market? What were the most popular genres of games?
